Previously on
Star Trek: Strange New Worlds...
LA'AN:
Lieutenant La'An Noonien-Singh.
Chief of security.
I've been assigned
as acting first officer.
No sedatives.
CHAPEL:
Maybe I wasn't clear about
the terrible pain part.
Maybe I wasn't clear
when I said no.
The Gorn captured
my family's colony ship.
I was the only one to survive.
Can I help?
-No.
-SPOCK: Hemmer may not
be able to see,
but his other senses compensate.
HEMMER:
Compensate? They are superior.
What the...
How did you...
PIKE:
You beat out how many,
-a thousand applicants?
-Several thousand.
Both my parents were killed
in a shuttle accident.
Didn't feel like I fit
-anywhere.
-SPOCK: I understand
you did not come to Starfleet
the way many of us have.
That you are not sure
you wish to stay.
Starfleet would be fortunate
to have an officer like you.
LA'AN:
Security officer's log,
stardate 3177.3.
TheEnterprise is currently
en route to deliver
an atmospheric processor upgrade
to Finibus Three.
Without our assistance,
the air on this remote colony
will become unbreathable
in a matter of weeks.
As we prepare for our arrival,
we pause to honor
Starfleet Remembrance Day.
[public address system chimes]
PIKE:
Attention. This is
the captain speaking.
Many of us have known those
who have made
the ultimate sacrifice.
♪
Officers, scientists,
civilians who gave their lives
in the hope for galactic peace.
Today we remember the friends
and comrades we lost.
Exploration can exact
a heavy toll.
As captain, there is
no loss more devastating
than that of a crew member.
Remembrance Day is about them.
Those of us left behind
wear the insignia
of past ships on which
we served together.
As we honor the lives
that have been given,
let us also be grateful
to be still on the journey.
Tell me, what
is the essential function
of the AP350 device?
It's an air filter.
Cadets.
Never read the assignment
materials in advance.
Invented by a Zigwel Orgon
in 2234.
First deployed on Titan after
the Crestbrock mining collapse.
Unlike its predecessors,
the upgraded model, AP350,
uses charged positron rods
to stabilize the ion matrix,
which... then, well,
filters the air.
Fine.
-Points granted.
-MALE VOICE [over P.A.]:
Lieutenant Taft, please report
to the shuttle bay.
Lieutenant Taft,
please report
to the shuttle bay.
Most cadets labor their rotation
through engineering
dreaming of command.
I'm enjoying it here, actually.
Engineering is a lot
like linguistics.
Is that so?
Sure. Both are dependent on
how seemingly unrelated
systems communicate.
Big ideas.
To impress me,
you're going to need
to do better than theorize.
Challenge accepted.
You're not wearing your pin.
-No big deal.
-Okay.
-You know how I feel about it.
-Yeah, I definitely do.
-The past is the past, there's
no point in looking back.
-Closure
-seems like a reason.
Starfleet has
-Una, stop.
-resources...
-I am not going to let some
doctor inside my head
to try and fix me.
I'm not broken. I'm fine.
Captain, we've arrived in orbit.
PIKE:
So... where's the welcome wagon?
Sir, Finibus Three is still
not responding to any hails.
When was their
last transmission?
According to the log,
two days ago.
I have been monitoring radio
wave interference
emanating from a large brown
dwarf in close proximity.
That's what's jamming
the signal?
Possible.
Let me adjust sensors.
The brown dwarf does not appear
to be the problem, Captain.
Finibus Three
is not responding because
the colony's communications
satellite has been destroyed.
Accidental?
Impossible to say, Captain.
All right.
Report it to Starfleet.
Protocol now is we investigate,
make contact on the ground.
Go slow. No assumptions
until we gather more intel.
I'll prep a landing party.
Lieutenant Noonien-Singh.
There are supposed to be
hundreds of people here.
TODD:
I'm not getting
any human life signs.
UNA:
Rushed evacuation?
LA'AN:
Rushed under fire.
Those are blast marks--
definitely a skirmish here.
[metal rattling]
[barking]
[others laughing]
That's not funny.
Commander, come take a look.
UNA:
Not an evacuation.
A massacre.
LA'AN:
Looks like the bodies
were all dragged here.
But where are they now?
Number One, we've got an
unidentified ship up here.
We're beaming you back up.
The away team
is on board, Captain.
No Federation badges.
Ship has her shields up.
Scans reveal multiple
life forms. Unable to identify.
Hail them. All channels.
No response.
Yellow alert. Shields up.
Captain, they're hailing us.
Belay that order.
On screen.
Thank God. You're Starfleet.
This is Captain Christopher Pike
of the USS Enterprise.
And you are?
Professor Thandie
of Finibus Three.
My apologies,
but I needed to be sure.
-What's your status?
-Most of us are injured.
This is a cargo vessel.
Life support is overextended.
Prepare for transport
to the Enterprise.
Uh, Captain, this ship is used
for hauling radioactive ore.
The hull is transport resistant.
Zuniga, attach
a deep space transport tube.
Can you tell me what happened?
A blast from the sky took out
our main colony structure.
We then all heard
a loud ringing sound.
Everything gets blurry
after that.
No signs of any other vessels.
No residual warp signatures.
Hang on.
Everything's going to be
all right.
[indistinct chatter]
[coughing]
I can't thank you enough.
All of us owe you our lives.
UNA:
We're still trying
to figure out who did this.
Did anyone see anything?
A farmer saw streaks in the sky.
He said it was like...
rain on fire.
Most of us
were unconscious by then.
LA'AN:
We count about
a hundred with you.
What happened
to the rest of the colony?
I don't know.
We woke up and they were gone.
No bodies. Just blood.
Ringing-- maybe
an ultrasonic cannon?
Rain on fire.
Sub-orbital plasma bombardment.
No ships on our sensors,
but my gut is telling me
something's off.
-Fig! Come here, stop! Fig!
-Hey, hey, hey.
The monsters are coming, hide!
Honey, you know
monsters aren't real.
What monsters?
The ones who took Daddy.
This has been awful for her.
Did you see something, Fig?
It was dark. I didn't see it.
But it makes noises.
Like this.
[clucking tongue]
La'An to Bridge.
We need to scan the area
for polarized EM signatures.
Quickly.
What is it?
I'm not sure yet.
Sensors are detecting a slight
optical distortion
near the second moon--
a hologram, sir.
Raise shields! Now!
-Raise shields. Red alert.
-ORTEGAS: We can't--
the transport tube.
We can't raise shields.
[alarm blaring]
Oh, no.
La'An, move.
It's the Gorn.
PIKE:
Space.
The final frontier.
These are the voyages
of the starshipEnterprise.
Its five-year mission:
to explore strange new worlds...
...to seek out new life
and new civilizations,
to boldly go
where no one has gone before.
♪
[muffled, indistinct chatter]
Okay, you're next. Sit tight.
[booming in distance]
Clear that bed!
-[alarm blaring]
-[chatter continuing]
UNA:
She didn't make it.
What about the girl?
-You're bleeding.
-I'll be fine.
Thank you. I-I lo...
I locked up. I just... I...
Forget that. I told the Captain.
If you're right, they need you.
Get to the bridge.
Pike to Main Cargo Bay.
Warp is down, Hemmer.
Securing the processor first,
Captain.
It's not safe under fire.
PIKE:
Do it, but get us warp, fast.
-Shields at 60%.
-Anything?
ZUNIGA:
Switching comm control
to tactical.
Still no response to hails.
How fast can you push impulse?
The starboard nacelle
is half-damaged.
I can get us about half speed.
Initiate Pattern Echo Zeta.
That's an offensive pattern,
Captain. Order a retreat.
You have to
get shields up and go.
Lieutenant, I understand
how this might...
-You can't fight them.
-Confirmed sightings
are rare, and they have
never ventured
-into Federation sp...
-It's the Gorn.
It's the Gorn, sir.
It's them. This was a trap.
The hologram,
the colonists as bait--
they waited for us
to be vulnerable.
We're too damaged
to stand and fight.
It's what they do first--
run you down,
use up your resources.
Tire us out. Smart tactic.
And deadly.
We have to find cover, regroup,
level the playing field.
You have to trust me, Captain.
Please.
That brown dwarf
that you mentioned before--
it's, uh, pretty much
a gas giant, right?
Where exactly is it?
200 million kilometers away.
But Captain,
it is tethered in orbit
around a black hole.
Like, how big of a black hole?
One problem at a time.
Can we maneuver
inside the brown dwarf?
While technically possible,
there are a number
of dangers involved.
Shields at 40%.
Bottom-line it for me.
The central mass
of the brown dwarf
has a density that will
crush the entire ship.
-Surrounding that
is a volatile gas cloud.
-How volatile?
Enterprisewill need to lower
its electrical output.
Primary and auxiliary systems
need to go off-line.
We will lose sensors, optics,
long-range communications
and, most importantly,
the shields.
We'll be running dark.
-That sounds...
-Perfect.
Anything following us
will have to do the same.
If you're right,
it's our best shot.
You're the acting
Number One again. Do you concur?
Yes, sir.
Helm, full impulse
to Spock's mark.
Aye aye. Full impulse.
Into a giant gas cloud of death.
Why not?
Captain, Sickbay and their cargo
stores just took direct fire.
As did the Main Cargo Bay.
[alarms blaring]
Lieutenant Hemmer?
Lieutenant Hemmer?!
[Hemmer groans]
Please get this off me.
[groaning, grunting]
[grunting]
[sharp exhale]
Oh. It's broken.
Well, let's get you to Sickbay.
-The door is blocked, isn't it?
-Yep.
-[machine whirrs down]
-[new alarms blaring]
How long before it blows?
I have time
to stabilize the unit.
An explosion
of that magnitude w...
Would consume theEnterprise
in an atomic blast. Yes.
Transporters are off-line. We'll
send in a team to dig you out.
Either way,
I'll be here repairing.
Hemmer out.
Is it just me
or is it hot in here?
The ionic gas surrounding
the ship is overwhelming
climate controls.
Many systems are down.
Including Sickbay.
Everything is off-line.
We're stabilizing patients,
but without medical systems,
no one is getting better.
It's triage.
Casualties?
Yes, Captain. Nine confirmed.
The hit we took decimated
our stock of treatment supplies.
And with the matter synthesizers
also off-line,
we can't make more
when we run out.
-How's Una?
-She reports that she's fine.
She's on her way in.
I haven't had time
to check her yet.
We're still playing catch-up.
I've activated
all backup medical personnel,
but what I really need
down here are supplies.
CHAPEL:
Doctor, I could really
use some help over here.
M'Benga out.
-[alarm blaring]
-[indistinct chatter]
Doctor!
You said you were fine.
I was mistaken.
These are deep.
We can't power up
the surgery bays.
If I recall,
you have an interest
in archeological medicine.
How good are you at sewing?
Aces.
No weapons systems, no phasers.
What about photon torpedoes?
Those can be self-guided.
The torpedo bay was hit in
the attack. We lost all but one.
We only have one photon torpedo?
The amount is inconsequential.
If we fire a torpedo
inside the brown dwarf,
the atmospheric composition
will cause a failure
in the internal systems.
It would propel
in a random direction, likely
missing its intended target.
So, no shields and no weapons.
What do we do--
throw luggage at them?
And the Gorn-- really?
We're out here fighting the...
the boogeyman?
No one has even seen one.
So how are we supposed
to take them on?
I've seen them.
They aren't supernatural.
But they are monsters.
The Federation teaches that if
we can find a way to empathize
with an enemy then they can
one day become our friends.
They're wrong.
Some things in this universe
are just plain evil.
Have you ever seen eyes
that are both
dead and hungry
at the same time?
To them, humans are just
walking feed bags
of flesh and bone and jelly.
The Gorn trigger
a primitive, ancient, terror
in warm-blooded species.
We are prey.
And when they hunt,
they're unrelenting.
The truth is plenty of people
have seen the Gorn.
They just don't live
long enough to talk about it.
All right.
Be vigilant.
Get creative.
You're the best of Starfleet.
We survive this
by working together.
[door whooshes open]
A moment, Lieutenant.
[door whooshes closed]
How you holding up?
The enemy doesn't care
about my feelings, Captain,
so I don't waste my time
having any.
Well, that may be true,
but it's not
looking that way to the crew.
With all due respect,
you know me well enough
to know that I don't care
what the crew thinks.
I've always been blunt.
That's just who I am.
Direct, looking at outcomes,
not emotion.
-Exactly.
-But right now, your job
isn't just about orders,
it's about hope.
Belief can be the difference
between victory and defeat.
Get a crew
to believe in miracles,
they might just give you one.
I will make the adjustment.
But I will not lie to them.
The best miracles
are born from truth.
Understood, Captain.
Now, there's not much
on the official record.
Is there anything else
you can remember
from your time with the Gorn--
anything that might help?
The memories of what happened
are, um,
trauma-inhibited.
The... It's all...
it's-it's...
it's all fragments.
Bit-Bits and pieces.
Well, if anything comes to mind.
[alarms blaring]
An engineer's
most important tools
are his mind and his hands.
And I can't move my fingers.
-[groans]
-Oh... Okay.
Let's just...
work on relaxing.
[new alarm beeping]
Here's what's gonna happen:
you're gonna
talk me through what to do.
We're gonna be a team.
It's not that simple.
There's a variety of data
that only I can assess.
And I'm the only one here
with a working set of fingers.
I am not fond of teams.
Get fond.
It would seem I have to.
Start by using
the control panel to shut down
the safety override.
You'll have to
adjust the cooling system.
What did I do?
Your other hand operates
the cooling system as you work.
Take the time to get focused.
Don't let the core
get above 110 degrees.
[boatswain's whistle blows]
Captain, a moment please?
You have something, Spock?
You challenged us
to get creative.
Computer, run program Vinci 7.
Primary sensors
aren't available.
But navigation systems
constantly take in
atmospheric data
to maintain stability.
Hey, I still
do most of the work.
A ship traveling through
the gas cloud creates
oscillation in the atmosphere.
These are converted into
-rotational motions by...
-ORTEGAS: Coriolis forces.
Which the nav-com
detects automatically.
Marking Coriolis force readings
would allow us to triangulate
movement inside the gas giant.
We can track the Gorn.
You just turned a compass
into a radar.
Do it.
It's working.
We've got a signal.
Analysis?
The size and speed indicate
it is the ship that attacked us.
They're coming right at us.
ETA is one minute.
Can they see us?
It is impossible
to tell, Captain.
Captain, evasive maneuvers?
Negative. Keep her steady.
Captain.
Preparing to engage the enemy
Keep her steady, helm.
Aye.
The enemy has altered
its course.
They can't see us.
But they won't stop looking.
Zuniga, arm the last torpedo.
Arming torpedo.
Captain, I must remind you that
if you fire a photon torpedo
inside a brown dwarf the
guidance systems will not work.
I don't plan on firing it.
We're gonna
drop it on them manually.
Now we're talking.
PIKE:
Set a course to pursue
the enemy vessel.
Quick but quiet, Erica.
That is my specialty.
PIKE:
Put us right over her,
then tilt axis 90 degrees.
Once the hatch opens,
the higher mass below
should pull the torpedo
straight down. On my mark.
Deploy torpedo.
Bombs away.
The signal is gone.
The enemy ship
has been destroyed.
Captain, we have incoming.
Multiple incoming.
They wanted us to fire.
They sacrificed an entire ship
just to get our location.
ORTEGAS:
Why is that blip so much bigger?
Three on one. Not good.
We're outgunned.
Time to run, sir.
I concur. But if we leave the
brown dwarf they will see us.
If we go deeper,
it could destroy the ship.
Good thinking, Mr. Spock.
We need to go deeper
into the brown dwarf.
That is not what I suggested.
Ortegas, plot a course.
-As close as you can get us
to center mass.
-Sure.
Didn't our science expert just
say that would crush the ship?
Just asking, Sir.
SPOCK:
I did. The pressure
against the hull
will increase the deeper we go.
If we venture too close,
the density field
will obliterate us.
Whatever happens to us
will also happen to the Gorn.
I believe in Enterprise.
We can outlast them.
LA'AN:
Captain, the lower decks
will be first
to take structural damage.
Immediate evacuation
of all decks below 20.
I don't like it either,
but Enterprisehas to dive.
Helm, take us down.
Aye aye, Skipper.
Dive, dive, dive.
[alarm continues blaring]
[Una hisses]
[metal groaning]
[Una groans]
[walls rattling]
[ship groans]
I've never heard a ship
make a sound like that before.
No. Keep your focus.
And maybe pick up the pace.
[exclaims]
This isn't easy. And I...
and, of course,
diagnostics are off-line.
I can't tell which ones
are broken.
Hold your hand out to each.
Tell me what you feel.
-[sizzle]
-Aah! Hot!
I did not say touch them.
The malfunctioning rods
should be cool.
Be sure before you remove them.
All right, I think
I've got a cold one.
Perfect.
Now lift it out gently.
[laughs]
Look at us! Come on!
And the crowd goes wild.
Before replacing it,
we have to reconfigure
the host platform.
Reconfigure the...
Done.
Now we can get started.
Get started?
[ship groaning]
The lower decks
are beginning to buckle.
The evacuation isn't complete.
There's still crew down there.
Get them out.
Decks are collapsing.
If we do not seal them off now,
loss of pressure
could spread to the entire ship.
Seal the bulkheads.
Sir.
Uh, hey, hey!
-Hey.
-[groans]
I got you. I got you.
[grunts] Go!
No, no, no, no!
[shouts]
Structural collapse on Deck 22.
We've lost one crew person.
You made the logical choice.
Why doesn't it feel like that?
For the same reason you made it.
Because you value life.
Captain, we're approaching
critical hull failure.
If antimatter chambers
become compromised,
there will be no ship
left to save.
LA'AN:
Enterprisecan't take
much more of this.
We're overextended.
You said they wanted to take us
prisoner, Number One?
Well, if they think they're
gonna board the Enterprise,
they're gonna find one hell
of a fight. Battle stations.
Make ready for close quarters.
Ortegas, full stop.
Aye, sir. Full stop.
[engines power down]
Captain. The enemy ship.
It appears the Gorn vessel
could not withstand
the atmospheric pressure.
It has imploded.
You said when the
Gorn hunt they are relentless.
They don't stop.
You exploited that
as a weakness.
Get me a damage report.
Mr. Spock, keep scanning
for the other two ships.
Two down, two to go.
Doing good.
How's it going?
Think I'm a little like
Frankenstein's monster,
but I'll be all right.
There's one fragment left.
The intrusion
on her abdominal aorta.
Okay, what are you
not telling me?
We need to sedate you.
The location of the fragment--
You're gonna bleed. A lot.
We have just enough plasma,
but...
we're gonna have to give
it to you via IV.
Do I have a choice?
M'BENGA:
You can decline.
Wait for the systems
to be online.
We can take bets on when
septic shock will begin.
I hear it's like giving birth
out your mouth.
Who says something like that?
Me.
Give me the gas.
Okay.
[gas hisses]
Just breathe.
You'll start to feel drowsy.
Nurse.
She needs plasma.
There's none left.
Give her mine.
It's the last one.
You're about to lose
a massive amount of blood.
That's an order.
PIKE:
Captain's Log, supplemental.
Enterprise is currently
in the center of a gas giant
hiding from an enemy
we've never faced before.
So far, three civilians
and seven of my crew
have lost their lives.
The battle is far from over.
But I am determined
to keep everyone else alive.
My newest obstacle is the
presence of a nearby black hole.
Atmospheric density
is decreasing.
I believe the singularity
is advancing
its accumulation
of substellar material.
Do you ever speak
in plain English?
The brown dwarf
we're hiding inside
is being sucked into
a black hole.
We stay, we will go with it.
Precisely.
LA'AN:
And we can't pop our heads up
to see if it's clear to leave.
They could see us.
Without long-range
communication,
we cannot even send a probe.
How much time before we can't
escape the black hole's gravity?
One hour, 32 minutes
and 48 seconds.
What about a shuttle?
Small enough
to navigate undetected.
Minimize risk
to the rest of the crew.
That sounds like
a suicide mission.
LA'AN:
Captain, a shuttle
is our only shot.
You don't have to order
anyone to go.
I'll do it.
As will I.
To put it in plain English:
you will need backup.
Take the Galileo.
Get back here in 30 minutes,
no matter what.
Sir.
SPOCK:
Fascinating.
Why scan each other?
LA'AN:
No. It's not a scan, it's...
...something else.
You've seen this before.
When you were
attacked by the Gorn.
The SS Puget Sound.
That was the name
of our colony ship.
I remember some. A lot of it is
just...
flashes in the dark.
But I know
I've seen those lights.
The mind is complex.
When faced with intense trauma
it can manifest intricate
defenses to aid survival.
I feel like there's
something in there.
Something I should know.
Understandable, given the enemy
we are currently facing.
You can help me.
I've heard what Vulcans can do.
The mind meld is not a shortcut
for dealing with mental trauma.
Resurfacing hidden memories
can be painful,
even dangerous.
If somewhere in my head
is the answer to saving
the Enterprise,then that's
a risk I have to take.
I can't just keep running.
SPOCK:
My mind to your mind.
My thoughts to your thoughts.
My mind to your thoughts.
To your...
[voice grows distorted, distant]
GIRL: Mom?
-WOMAN: La'An, be brave.
-MALE: Evacuate the ship!
LA'AN:
Not believing you're gonna die
is what gets you killed.
SPOCK:
Your memories
are starting to surface.
This is a Gorn breeding planet.
They brought us here as food
for their hatchlings.
Hunted us day and night.
Your mind is resisting.
You are...
Scared.
I don't like this place.
Do you want to stop?
No.
I can do this.
I need to know.
[shuddering breaths]
[panting]
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
-I was trying to be quiet.
-It's okay.
-[growling, clucking]
-I was trying to be quiet.
-It's okay, it's okay.
It's okay. Look at me.
La'An, it's okay.
Right here.
Right here, right here,
right here.
Keep looking at me.
They're coming.
Take this.
It'll help you hide.
The lights. I watched them.
It's how
they talk to each other.
It's all in there.
What are you doing?
You need to run.
Don't be afraid.
Don't look back.
J-Just run.
Keep moving, no matter what.
Okay?
-Come with me.
-I can't.
Run, La'An.
Run!
What happened?
Your subconscious
is setting a boundary.
The lights-- they're a code.
My brother showed me
how to read it.
[Spock speaking Vulcan]
BURNHAM:
I love you too.
You lost someone too,
didn't you?
You had a...
a sister.
But Starfleet records
don't show any...
They do not.
She sacrificed herself
for you, too, didn't she?
I think we should
end this mind meld now.
Spock, I have an idea.
I've modulated the shuttle's
phasers per your instruction.
Surprised you agreed to this.
I believe it is a good plan.
And our mind meld
reminded me of risks taken
and their value
to those that survive.
LA'AN:
I just told them humans boarded
and took over the vessel.
At least I hope I did.
Culling the weak
makes them stronger.
Survival of the fittest.
[alarms blaring]
[sighs]
And Uhura for the win.
-[groaning softly]
-Oh, stay awake.
Okay?
Let's get you talking.
Uh... So, an Aenar
in Starfleet--
how's that even work?
Thought you guys
were all pacifists.
I actually
wanted to be a botanist.
Love flora.
I will not fight for Starfleet.
But I will defend its ideals.
Pacifism is not passivity.
It is the active protection
of all living things
in the natural universe.
A matter of perspective.
Like using touch
instead of sight.
I wouldn't know.
[new alarm blaring]
The matrix
exceeded critical limits
before we completed repairs.
Our only option now is to vent
this bay and everything in it
into space.
But...
we're in here, too.
Unfortunately,
that is also true.
We have 20 minutes until
the unit explodes. Maybe less.
Acknowledged. Stand by.
Welcome back, Lieutenants.
Good job.
Though we're not
out of the woods yet.
Report.
It's not the Gorn.
It's this guy.
The brown dwarf
is dissolving too fast.
We are losing our cover.
We don't get out of here
pretty fast,
we're gonna be sitting ducks.
Except that last Gorn ship
will be on top of us
the instant we leave.
Space really wants us dead.
Then why don't we
let space win?
Spock, could we
use the black hole's gravity
to slingshot us to safety?
Mathematically,
that is possible.
But the Gorn will see us
and have the opportunity
to pursue us.
-Maybe.
-Maybe?
Explain gravitational redshift.
Gravitational redshift
is an optical illusion
that occurs as an object
falls into a black hole.
The object falls faster than
the frequency of light it emits.
To any outside observer,
it would appear as though
the object has stopped
just outside the black hole.
Last question. What do
snakes, ducks, and possums
all have in common?
When hunted, they play dead.
Ortegas, plot a course to take
us close to the event horizon.
Hemmer, you and the cadet
have access to EV suits?
HEMMER:
We do, sir.
I hesitate to ask why.
You're going to slingshot
off the black hole
and drop the AP 350 as a decoy?
Captain, your plan requires
flying the Enterprise
into one of the most
turbulent phenomenons in space.
Hull integrity
is already compromised.
-That kind of force...
-She'll hold.
The Enterprise
is going to make it.
She'll hold.
We've got this.
Erica, if anyone can
surf a wave on a black hole,
it's you.
Ah, now you almost
make it sound fun.
Suit up, strap in.
We're venting the hold
on my signal.
I commit you to the cosmos.
I'm giving you high marks
on your assessment today.
You impressed me after all.
Assuming that will
still matter...
thank you.
Humans waste so much life
worrying about death.
The Aenar believe
the end only comes
once you have
fulfilled your purpose.
-It provides meaning.
-I-I like that.
So, what was your purpose?
To fix what is broken.
You can throw in teaching.
Maybe even being inspiring.
A little.
[laughs]
And you?
What do you feel is the purpose
of your life's path?
I really don't know.
Does that mean
I'm not gonna die?
There's only one way
to find out.
ZUNIGA:
Inertial dampers at max.
Brace for heavy gravity.
ORTEGAS:
We pull this off,
it's officially
The Pike Maneuver.
Open a channel. Ship-wide.
Attention, this is
the Captain speaking.
Earlier today, we were reminded
of the cost of exploration.
What it means
to chart the stars,
to push the boundaries
of what is known
and what is possible.
When we seek out the unknown,
we will find things
that challenge us.
That frighten us.
But we do not back down.
We do not give in to fear.
And I believe today
will not be our last mission,
but our finest hour.
All hands make ready for impact.
Gorn ship changing course.
Accretion disc in sight.
Hit it.
[ship groaning, rattling]
Vent the hold!
[both exclaiming, grunting]
Ortegas.
[engines whirring up]
Report.
No sign of the Gorn.
They've gone, sir. We did it.
Show me Main Cargo Bay.
Pike to Main Cargo Bay.
Hemmer.
Hemmer? Uhura?
Report.
La'An. Send a recovery team.
UHURA:
We're here, sir.
We're still here.
[sighs]
Well, I don't know about you...
...but...
I think that was
quite a miracle.
What about next time?
The Gorn have never
come this far before.
They're opening up
new hunting grounds.
Next time.
Next time, they...
they won't catch us by surprise.
We'll be ready for 'em.
LA'AN:
Personal log,
stardate 3177.9.
Today, theEnterprise
encountered the Gorn.
Seven of the crew...
gave their lives.
But...
...we survived.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org